---
layout: post
title:      "Day 2, Hour 15"
date:       2020-04-21 12:39:22 -0400
permalink:  day_2_hour_15
---


Only 2 lessons short.  MUCH better then yesterday...

Wait, now it's day 9.  What happened, where am I?  Last thing I remember is, yes, it was Day 2, hour 15.  

I know a few more things than I did on Day 1 or 2, so that's good, right!?!?  Why I chose Software Development? I might still not have a definite answer, though.   I feel like I should have an answer to that, but, honestly, I don't.  I'm becoming ok with that.  I hope it presents itself over the next few weeks (and not necessarily next few months).  

Why this program, then?  I need a change.  I have had jobs that I'm good at, and they have left me unsatisfied, for example running and being partner in a restaurant.   I have followed my dreams and received a degree in fashion and even worked in the fashion industry, only to realize that I shouldn't have a job that encompasses my creative outlet.  So I thought about it, and I have been jealous (healthy kinda jealous) over listening to people talk about tech.  I love technology, I truly know that it is making our lives more streamlined.  In my own experience, it helped me do the impossible, running a major restaurant expansion with little to no help.  

I almost left my job last fall to pursue a bootcamp in Software Design.  Then COVID happened, and all of our lives, overnite, were 75% online (if not more!).  Except for cooking and taking walks, everything I was doing was on a computer.  I took it as my own sign.  I want to be a part of what's currently driving each and every one of our lives, and what will continue to do so in the future.  I have it in me to learn, to do whatever it takes to build new sides of myself (although it might be a kind of 'ugly' transformation process with many tears) and I love change.  I love stepping on the brakes so immediately and choosing the fork in the road.  I'm not one to see the signs of the fork and think "Well, maybe next time.".  I'm the one who's like, "Oh shoot, hold onto something quick.  There might be no next time!".  

So although I might not know why or what I'm going to do with Software Dev, I'm doing it.  I like it!  I might not even know if I have what it takes, but I love that my husband walked by the door of my office while I was pair programming the other day and later said "I had no idea what you were even talking about.  You just sounded smart!".  and I love that I know what a Class Method is right now!  I mean, what ?!?!?!?
